# S3

S3 is an implementation of [Bucket](./bucket.md) integration for [Amazon Simple Storage](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/).

Currently supported S3 client is from [aws-sdk-go-v2](https://aws.github.io/aws-sdk-go-v2/docs/getting-started/).

## Installation

Run the following command to install the package:

```bash
go get github.com/tigorlazuardi/maleo/bucket/maleos3/v2
```

## Usage

There are 3 ways to initialize the S3 Bucket implementation.

!!! warning "Requirement"

    Your credential chain must have permission to call `PutObject` API on the bucket. Otherwise it will fail to upload.

!!! info "Auto Create Bucket"

    If your credential chain have permission to create bucket, and your bucket does not exist in AWS,
    maleos3 will create one for you.

### 1. Using Default Credential Chain

This is arguably the easiest to setup. This support EC2 instance role, read credentials from `~/.aws/credentials` file,
or from environment variables for authentication.

```go title="Default Credential Chain"
--8<-- "bucket/maleos3/v2/s3_example_test.go:integrated"
```

### 2. Using Simple Static Credential

If your services do not run in EC2 instance or for some reason you don't want to use environment variables (e.g. rolling
out your own secret management service), using simple static credentials are perhaps the best method for you.

```go title="Static Client"
--8<-- "bucket/maleos3/v2/s3_example_test.go:static"
```

### 3. Using Custom Client

If you want to use your own client configuration, just simply pass your own.

```go title="Custom Client"
--8<-- "bucket/maleos3/v2/s3_example_test.go:custom"
```

## Non AWS S3 Services

For services who are support S3 protocol, they may be able to interop with AWS SDK v2.

!!! warning "Limited Support"

    Support for Non AWS S3 is very limited. It may or may not work with your S3 like server. You may have to roll your
    own client and configuration.

```go title="Non AWS Service"
--8<-- "bucket/maleos3/v2/s3_example_test.go:nonaws"
```
